Migrated and updated Extending packages articles (#14)
umbraco/UmbracoCMSDocs: Articles/Packages/Extending/index.md

# Packages

## What is a Package?

A package extends Umbraco to provide additional functionality to editors, developers, site visitors, and all other types of users of Umbraco. It can impact one or more of these groups of people depending on the type of package.

> An Umbraco Package can be many things, but are generally characterized by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Umbraco Package can be many things, but are generally characterised by:
```

Assuming UK English is used of US English?  If not, ignore this comment.

Author: I'm not really sure to be honest, got any pointers @sofietoft

Reviewer 2: Actually, the general language we want to use going forward (not everything is updated yet 😅 ) is **US English**.

I'll make sure it's added to our style guide 💪

- Adding or extending functionality in the Umbraco CMS
- Empowering people to do more and/or do things more efficiently
- Engaging community members in collaboration and sharing
- Solving real life problems

> - Inspiring people on what Umbraco can be made capable of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inspiring people on what Umbraco can be capable of
```

> - Inspiring people on what Umbraco can be made capable of

Author: Isn't what we're trying to say that, through package developers help Umbraco can be made capable of amazing things? Rather than Umbraco just being inherently awesome? (Which it is)

Reviewer: Agreed, I'll remove this suggestion.

### Categories of packages

Packages provide a wide variety of functionality, and can often span multiple categories. In general, though, the functionality they provide fall into these main groups:

 - [Schema Extensions](#schema-extensions)
 - [Management Extensions](#management-extensions)
 - [Starter Kits](#starter-kits)
 - [Content Apps](#content-apps)
 - [Integration Extensions](#integration-extensions)

#### Schema Extensions

> A package that can be categorised as a Schema Extension will extend the default Umbraco Schema. Schema in this sense is things like Data Types, Property Editors, Document Types and Media Types. By extending Umbraco with packages such as [Our.Umbraco.GMaps](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/backoffice-extensions/ourumbracogmaps-google-maps-for-umbraco-8/) it gives editors greater capabilities when they are populating their content pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A package that can be categorised as a Schema Extension will extend the default Umbraco Schema. Schema in this sense refers to things like Data Types, Property Editors, Document Types and Media Types. By extending Umbraco with packages such as [Our.Umbraco.GMaps](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/backoffice-extensions/ourumbracogmaps-google-maps-for-umbraco-8/) editors are given greater capabilities when they are populating their content pages.
```

#### Management Extensions

> A Management Extension package helps you manage your site, and provides info to the users. Management extensions can be made of many different parts, but often they include custom sections or dashboards for you to manage something.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Management Extension package helps you manage your site, and provides information to the users. Management extensions can be made of many different parts, but often they include custom sections or dashboards for you to manage something.
```

A good example of a management extension package is [Diplo God Mode](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/developer-tools/diplo-god-mode/) which gives you a lot of extra info and tools to manage your site.

#### Starter Kits

> Starter kits are, as the name suggests, a package that helps you set up a starter version of whatever you want to build. Most starter kit packages are for starting a website, and include schema like Document Types and Templates as well as content nodes and media. There are also some quite specialized starter kits, for example for creating a blog. Umbraco HQ has released their [own starter kit](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/starter-kits/the-starter-kit/), that creates a small site with the most commonly used parts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starter kits are, as the name suggests, a package that helps you set up a starter version of whatever you want to build. Most starter kit packages are for starting a website, and include schema like Document Types and Templates as well as content nodes and media. There are also some quite specialised starter kits, for example for creating a blog. Umbraco HQ has released their [own starter kit](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/starter-kits/the-starter-kit/), that creates a small site with the most commonly used features. 
```

#### Content Apps

:::note
Content Apps are only available from Umbraco 8
:::

Content apps are almost like dashboards for content nodes that are intended to display node specific information. A good example of this is the [Preflight](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/backoffice-extensions/preflight-content-health-checks-for-umbraco-8/) content app. It shows you readability scores for your written content, directly on each content node.

#### Integration extensions

> This type of package can be a lot of things, and can include a lot of the other package types in it. They are generally integrating a larger system into Umbraco. A good example could be an e-commerce package such as [UCommerce](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/website-utilities/ucommerce/), that includes an entire webshop module for Umbraco.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This type of package can be a lot of things, and can include a number of the other package types. They are generally integrating a larger system into Umbraco. A good example could be an e-commerce package such as [UCommerce](https://our.umbraco.com/packages/website-utilities/ucommerce/), that includes an entire webshop module for Umbraco.
```

## [Types of Packages](./package-types.md)

> There are two common types of package for Umbraco; Package zip files and NuGet Packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two common types of package for Umbraco: Package zip files and NuGet Packages.
```

Author: I have to be completely honest, I'm not well versed enough in grammar to know if ":" or ";" is correct

Reviewer: My daughter is just learning this, so I'm only going by her!  But think `:` should precede a list, `;` is more for separating two parts of a sentence (I think of it as half-way between a `,` and `.`).

Author: Ahh yeah I think you're right, I just remembered this old comic that explains it hilariously: https://theoatmeal.com/comics/semicolon
